According to Fedallah, why should you hang a sperm whale's head on one side of a ship and a right whale's on the other?	Your boat won't capsize
According to Ishmael, what is the wealth of New Bedford built upon?	Whale oil
According to Ishmael, which whale produces the best, purest, and sweetest of oils?	Sperm whale
According to Ishmael, who are the only people besides Stubb that still eat whale meat?	The Eskimos
According to Peter Coffin, what is Queequeg out doing when Ishmael learns that Queequeg will be his roommate?	Selling shrunken heads
After his father's death, where was thirteen-year-old Herman Melville forced to find work?	At a bank
After the whale carcass is cut loose from the ship, who are the "mourners" at its "funeral?"	Sharks and vultures
After what is Ahab's ship named?	An extinct Native American tribe in Massachusetts
Ahab claims that, "The path to my fixed purpose is laid" with what?	Iron rails
Because Pip's insane rantings move Ahab, Ahab gives Pip what?	The captain's quarters
Before the Pequod had even left Nantucket, Ahab's fake leg had twisted around and very nearly done what?	Pierced his groin
During the first part of the voyage, what kind of sounds do the crew think they hear from the cargo hold?	Human beings
For what were whales primarily hunted?	Oil
From what is Ahab's false leg made?	A whale's jawbone
How do live whales smell, according to Ishmael?	Pleasantly musky
How does Queequeg impress the men hiring the crew for the Pequod?	Harpooning a tiny target
How does Queequeg shave?	With a harpoon
How does the Pequod sink?	She is rammed by Moby Dick.
How is the Pequod decorated?	With whale bones
How many of the Pequod's crew survive their encounter with Moby Dick?	One
How old was Herman Melville when he made his first sea voyage as a merchant sailor?	19
In what decade did historians rediscover and promote the previously ignored Moby Dick as a seminal work of American literature?	1920's
In what state does Ishmael meet Queequeg?	Massachusetts
Ishmael decides he likes the fact that Queequeg is a pagan because Queequeg lacks a Christian's what?	Hollow courtesies
Ishmael likens the right whale to a stoic philosopher and the sperm whale to what other kind of philosopher? 	Platonic
Ishmael reflects that traveling around the world to hunt whales really amounts to what?	Going in circles
Ishmael thinks Buckington is fated to die at sea, but that such a death will transform Buckington into what?	God
Out of what is Fedallah's turban made?	His hair
Over the course of the voyage, Ahab destroys all of what?	The navigation equipment
Pip describes the doubloon on the mast as the ship's what?	Navel
Queequeg is a native of what island?	Kokovoko
The crew believes that they saw mermaids in the night, but Ahab says that there were actually what?	Seals
The fact that Ahab is using the Pequod for a different purpose than its owners intended means he could be charged with what?	Usurpation
The name of the First Mate is?	Starbuck
There once was a time when the "specksynder" or chief harpooner served as what?	The captain of the vessel
To what does Ishmael liken the experience of shipping aboard a whaler?	Committing suicide
What are the mates' names on the Pequod?	Starbuck, Stubbs, Flask
What causes Ahab's harpoon to flicker with fire?	Atmospheric static
What color does Ishmael think is horrible, unnatural and threatening when on an animal?	White
What covers Queequeg's skin?	Tattoos
What do the crew find in an old, blind, growth-covered whale that they kill?	A stone harpoon head
What does Ahab carry in his pocket?	Vial of Nantucket sand
What does Ahab nail to the ship's mast to motivate his crew in his quest for Moby Dick?	A gold coin
What does Ahab promise to the first man who spots Moby Dick?	A gold doubloon
What does Ahab recognize as the "first hearse" of Fedallah's prophecy?	Fedallah lashed to Moby Dick
What does Ahab see when he studies the gold doubloon nailed to the mast?	Himself
What does Captain Boomer want to do since Moby Dick took his arm?	Avoid Moby Dick
What does Fedallah prophesize will kill Captain Ahab?	Hemp
What does Ishmael call the mysterious spout of water that leads the crew onward, but never turns into a whale?	Spirt-spout
What does Ishmael claim is the major difference between male and female whales?	Males abandon injured comrades
What does Ishmael claim is the most famous part of a whale?	Its tail
What does Ishmael compare to the huge case of high-quality oil in a sperm whale's head?	A massive wine barrel
What does Ishmael decide he needs to do after seeing how dangerous a whale hunt can be?	Rewrite his will
What does Ishmael have tattooed on his forearm?	The dimensions of a whale
What does Ishmael think men and animals should be judged on, rather than their brains?	Their spines
What does Ishmael use as a life buoy?	Queequeg's coffin
What does Pip do the first time he goes out whaling and a whale bumps the bottom of the boat?	Jumps out in fear
What does Queequeg do when the bumpkin that was mocking him falls into the ocean?	Dives in after him
What does the Delight drop into the water as the Pequod passes by?	A dead body
What does the crew look for to indicate the presence of a whale?	Spouts
What does the milk taste like on Nantucket?	Fish
What does the mincer wear when slicing pieces of blubber for the pots?	A whale-penis pelt
What does the scar on Ahab's cheek resemble?	A lightning bolt
What experience catalyzed Pip and Ahab's close companionship?	Pip's near-drowning
What frightens Ishmael the most about Moby Dick?	The whiteness of the whale
What happens to Ahab's fake leg during his fight with Moby Dick?	It's snapped off
What is "brit"?	Tiny sea creatures that whales eat
What is Ahab's single fatal flaw?	Hubris
What is Captain Ahab's artificial leg made of?	Ivory
What is Fedallah's turban made of?	His own hair
What is Flask's nickname?	King-Post
What is Ishmael constantly trying to pin down throughout the novel?	The essence of whales
What is a "gam"?	A social meeting of two, or more, whaling ships at sea
What is a "specksynder"?	Chief Harpooner
What is cetology?	The study of whales
What is the "doubloon" offered for?	The first man to spot Moby Dick
What is the Pequod named after?	An extinct Massachusetts Indian tribe
What is the biblical subject of Father Mapple's sermon at the Whaleman's Chapel?	Jonah
What is the famous first line of Moby Dick?	Call me Ishmael.
What is the name of Ahab's harpooner?	Fedallah
What is the name of Ahab's ship?	The Pequod
What is the name of Ahab's wife?	She is nameless
What is the name of Ishmael's unlikely roommate and bedfellow?	Queequeg
What is the name of Queequeg's native island?	Kokovoko
What is the name of the Second Mate?	Stubb
What is the name of the Third Mate?	Flask
What is the name of the inn Ishmael stays at on the mainland before the voyage?	The Spouter Inn
What is the name of the ship in the story?	The Pequod
What is the ship that rescues Ishmael at the end of the novel?	Rachel
What is the source of Ahab's fatal flaw?	The damage he's suffered
What is the study of whales called?	Cetology
What is the term for a whale that has already been harpooned or marked by the crew of a specific ship?	Fast-fish
What keeps Ishmael afloat after the Pequod sinks?	A coffin
What mainland city does Ishmael, the book's narrator, ship out from?	New Bedford
What real ship, attacked and sunk by a sperm whale, inspired Melville's story?	The Essex
What religion are the owners of the ship?	Quakers
What religious sect do Peleg and Bildad belong to?	Quakers
What shape does the ship's carpenter make Quequeeq's coffin?	A canoe
What type of whale are they hunting?	Sperm whales
What was Ahab using to attack Moby Dick when he lost his leg?	A knife
What was Queequeg on his home island?	A prince
What was the name of the whaling ship on which Melville spent 18 months between 1841 and 1842?	Achusnet
What was the sperm whale most highly prized for?	Spermaceti and sperm oil, used as lamp oil, among other uses
When Ahab and Starbuck talk about their families, how does Ahab see himself on his relentless quest?	A pathetic fool(Correct)
When Ahab bursts into fits of near-mad shrieking, what does Ishmael think is the cause?	His soul attempting escape
When Ahab has the blacksmith make a special harpoon for Moby Dick, what does Ahab give him for the metal?	Nails from racehorse shoes
When Ahab insists on climbing the mast to be the first to see Moby Dick, what happens to his hat?	A hawk steals it
When Ahab realizes that Moby Dick is now chasing him, what does he say?	"That's bad"
When Ahab realizes that smoking no longer soothes him, what does he do?	Throws his pipe overboard
When Daggoo and a Spanish sailor start to fight, what stops them?	A storm
When Queequeg decorates the coffin that he'd had made, what does he use for the decoration?	His own tattoos
When Queequeg falls ill, what does he do?	Have his coffin made
When Starbuck confronts Ahab about leaking oil barrels that are costing the crew profit, how does Ahab respond?	Points a gun at Starbuck
When Starbuck sees a row of muskets, what does he consider doing?	Killing Ahab
When Tashtego nearly drowns, what is he trapped in?	A whale's head
When does the Pequod set sail?	Christmas Day
When preparing to process the first dead whale, how does Queequeg almost loose his hand?	A dead shark's teeth
When the Pequod meets other sips, what is Ahab's only interest?	Information about Moby Dick
When the crew encounter the crazed prophet Gabriel, what does Gabriel prophesize as Ahab's fate?	"Dead and down there"
When the crew first hunt a whale, what nearly crushes Queequeg's boat?	The ship
When the crew takes a break from whale-processing, who does Ahab go on deck to talk to?	The whale's severed head
Where does Ishmael keep a record of whale dimensions that he measured from a skeleton in Tranque?	Tattooed on his arm
Where does Ishmael want to go to find a berth on a whaling ship?	Nantucket
Which American literary figure, to whom Moby Dick was dedicated, influenced Melville's writing?	Nathaniel Hawthorne
Which biblical figure is the focus of Father Mapple's sermon?	Jonah
Which body part has Ahab lost to Moby Dick?	His leg
Which character falls overboard and goes insane as a result?	Pip
Which character is often seen as an allegorical representation of God?	Moby Dick
Which characters survive the Pequod's sinking?	Only Ishmael
Which member of the crew is a religious Christian man?	Starbuck
Which was the first team to kill a whale?	Stubb and Tashtego
Who are Ahab's mates?	Starbuck, Stubbs, Flask
Who are the "five dusky phantoms" that appear when the first whale hunt begins?	Ahab's secret whaling crew
Who goes insane after being left alone adrift at sea?	Pip
Who is Ahab's personal harpooner and spiritual guide?	Fedallah
Who is Bildad?	The other co-owner of the ship Pequod. He is the exact opposite of Captain Peleg; he is cool in temperament, religious, and shrewd.  Bildad and Peleg hire the crew.
Who is Bulkington?	A quiet but dangerous sailor, whom Ishmael sees for the first time in the Spouter Inn. Later, Bulkington is Ishmael's shipmate on the whaling voyage.
Who is Captain Ahab?	The dark, brooding, peg-legged captain of the ship, the Pequod, and the protagonist of the novel. His entire motivation in the book is to find and kill Moby Dick, the whale that  caused him to lose his leg.
Who is Captain Boomer?	One-armed English whaling captain; master of the Samuel Enderby
Who is Captain Peleg?	Retired whaleman of Nantucket.  Former chief-mate and later co-owner of the ship Pequod. He is an imposing, short- tempered, and foul-mouthed man.  Bildad and Peleg hire the crew.
Who is Daggoo?	Third harpooner on the Pequod; described as 'a gigantic, coal-black negro-savage'
Who is Elijah?	Shabbily dressed street prophet in New Bedford; warns of Captain Ahab as 'Old Thunder'
Who is Father Mapple?	The chaplain (in New Bedford) who gives a moving sermon based on the Biblical story of Jonah and the whale in the Whalemen's chapel.
Who is Fedallah?	Strange, "oriental" old Parsee; Ahab's harpooner and personal prophet
Who is Flask?	Third mate of the Pequod; from Martha's Vineyard
Who is Fleece?	The old Negro cook on the ship.  He has bad knees. Under Stubb's instructions, he preaches a sermon to the sharks hovering around the dead sperm whale, tied to the ship's side.
Who is Gabriel?	The self-styled prophet on the ship, Jeroboam. He believes himself to be the incarnation of the Shaker God and influences all the crewmembers on board. He warns them of the White Whale.
Who is Ishmael?	The narrator of the novel and the only sailor to survive from the Pequod. He tells the entire story and actively participates in the drama that unfolds on Captain Ahab's whaling ship.
Who is Mayhew?	The captain of the Jeroboam, who had sighted and chased Moby Dick. Mayhew meets Ahab and tells him how the whale had killed his mate, Macey, during the chase.
Who is Moby Dick?	A giant and elusive white sperm whale. He serves as Captain Ahab's antagonist in the novel. Ahab's goal in life is to kill Moby Dick for having bitten off his leg.
Who is Mrs. Hosea Hussey?	The irate wife of the innkeeper at 'Try Pots', Nantucket. In the innkeeper's absence, she runs the affairs of the inn efficiently.
Who is Peter Coffin?	The deathly-named innkeeper of the Spouter Inn at New Bedford.
Who is Pip?	The cabin boy on the Pequod. He is a young Negro who is very nervous and quiet by temperament and loses his mind when he has been abandoned in the sea for awhile.  He becomes half idiot-half prophet.
Who is Queequeg?	A native of Kokovoko in the Fiji islands and an expert harpooner. Despite his religion and customs, he is able to develop a bond with Ishmael. Queequeg accompanies Ishmael on the whaling voyage to the Pacific and dies when the ship sinks.
Who is Radney?	The wicked and unjust mate on the Town-Ho. He is punished as though by divine providence when Moby Dick kills him.
Who is Starbuck?	A Quaker from Nantucket who serves as the first mate to the captain on the Pequod. He is an intelligent and brave officer who lives his life by Christian principles.
Who is Steel Kit?	The popular sailor on Town-Ho who leads a mutiny on board. He secretly plans to kill Radney, the most hated mate on the Town-Ho.
Who is Stubb?	Second mate of the Pequod; from Cape Cod
Who is Tashtego?	Stubb's harpooner; craves rum
Who is telling the story in the novel?	Ishmael
Who is the harpooner that Queequeq rescues?	Tashtego
Who is the only crewmate who opposes Ahab's plan to devote the ship's mission to hunt the White Whale?	Starbuck
Who is the second mate on the Pequod?	Stubb
Who is the subject of Father Mapple's sermon?	Jonah
Who owns the Pequod?	Bildad and Peleg
Who rescues Tashtego when he falls overboard inside the whale's head?	Queequeg
Who says the following: "If man will strike, strike through the mask! . . . That inscrutable thing is chiefly what I hate."	Ahab
Who says the following: "Though it come to the last, I shall still go before thee thy pilot . . . . Hemp only can kill thee."	Fedallah
Who says the following: "Vengeance on a dumb brute! That simply smote thee from blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing seems blasphemous."	Starbuck
Who wins the doubloon from the mast?	Ahab
Why are whaling ships always well-lit?	Free access to oil
Why does Ishmael claim that Nantucket has the largest empire in the world?	It owns the seas
Why does Ishmael find it odd that the French have been most successful in representing whales in art?	France doesn't hunt whales
Why does Ishmael think that he doesn't keep a very good watch?	He daydreams too much
Why does Ishmael think that the natural dangers of the sea are so insidious?	So much is hidden
Why does Ishmael think whales are so mysterious?	They're always mostly hidden
Why is the Pequod unable to purse the "Grand Armada" of sperm whales that they encounter near Sunda?	Malaysian Pirates appear
Why is the whale-line so dangerous once it is attached to a whale?	People can get tangled
With what does Queequeg sleep?	His harpoon
With what is the Pequod adorned?	Sperm whale teeth
With whom does Ishmael share a bed at the Spouter-Inn?	Queequeg
