The Project Gutenberg EBook of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Webster's Unabridged Dictionary

Author: Various

Release Date: August 22, 2009 [EBook #29765]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WEBSTER'S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY ***


Produced by Graham Lawrence

SPRIG
Sprig, n. Etym: [AS. sprec; akin to Icel. sprek a stick. Cf. Spray a
branch.]

1. A small shoot or twig of a tree or other plant; a spray; as, a
sprig of laurel or of parsley.

2. A youth; a lad; -- used humorously or in slight disparagement.
A sprig whom I remember, with a whey-face and a satchel, not so many
years ago. Sir W. Scott.

3. A brad, or nail without a head.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A small eyebolt ragged or barbed at the point.

SPRIG
Sprig, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sprigged; p. pr. & vb. n. Sprigging.]

Defn: To mark or adorn with the representation of small branches; to
work with sprigs; as, to sprig muslin.

SPRIGGED
Sprigged, a.

Defn: Having sprigs.

SPRIGGY
Sprig"gy, a.

Defn: Full of sprigs or small branches.

SPRIGHT
Spright, n. Etym: [See Sprite.]

1. Spirit; mind; soul; state of mind; mood. [Obs.] "The high heroic
spright." Spenser.
Wondrous great grief groweth in my spright. Spenser.

2. A supernatural being; a spirit; a shade; an apparition; a ghost.
Forth he called, out of deep darkness dread, Legions of sprights.
Spenser.
To thee, O Father, Son, and Sacred Spright. Fairfax.

3. A kind of short arrow. [Obs.] Bacon.

SPRIGHT
Spright, v. t.

Defn: To haunt, as a spright. [Obs.] Shak.

SPRIGHTFUL
Spright"ful, a. Etym: [Spright sprite + full.]

Defn: Full of spirit or of life; earnest; vivacious; lively; brisk;
nimble; gay. [Obs.] -- Spright"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Spright"ful*ness, n. [Obs.]
Spoke like a sprightful gentlemen. Shak.
Steeds sprightful as the light. Cowley.

SPRIGHTLESS
Spright"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of life; dull; sluggish.

SPRIGHTLINESS
Spright"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sprightly; liveliness; life;
briskness; vigor; activity; gayety; vivacity.
In dreams, observe with what a sprightliness and alacrity does she
[the soul] exert herself! Addison.

SPRIGHTLY
Spright"ly, a. [Compar. Sprightlier; superl. Sprightliest.] Etym:
[See Sprite.]

Defn: Sprightlike, or spiritlike; lively; brisk; animated; vigorous;
airy; gay; as, a sprightly youth; a sprightly air; a sprightly dance.
"Sprightly wit and love inspires." Dryden.
The sprightly Sylvia trips along the green. Pope.

SPRIGTAIL
Sprig"tail`, n. (Zoöl.)
(a) The pintail duck; -- called also sprig, and spreet-tail. [Local,
U.S.]
(b) The sharp-tailed grouse. [Local, U.S.]

SPRING
Spring, v. i. [imp. Sprang or Sprung (; p. p. Sprung; p. pr. & vb. n.
Springing.] Etym: [AS. springan; akin to D. & G. springen, OS. & OHG.
springan, Icel. & Sw. springa, Dan. springe; cf. Gr. Springe,
Sprinkle.]

1. To leap; to bound; to jump.
The mountain stag that springs From height to height, and bounds
along the plains. Philips.

2. To issue with speed and violence; to move with activity; to dart;
to shoot.
And sudden light Sprung through the vaulted roof. Dryden.

3. To start or rise suddenly, as from a covert.
Watchful as fowlers when their game will spring. Otway.

4. To fly back; as, a bow, when bent, springs back by its elastic
power.

5. To bend from a straight direction or plane surface; to become
warped; as, a piece of timber, or a plank, sometimes springs in
seasoning.

6. To shoot up, out, or forth; to come to the light; to begin to
appear; to emerge; as a plant from its seed, as streams from their
source, and the like; -often followed by up, forth, or out.
Till well nigh the day began to spring. Chaucer.
To satisfy the desolate and waste ground, and to cause the bud of the
tender herb to spring forth. Job xxxviii. 27.
Do not blast my springing hopes. Rowe.
O, spring to light; auspicious Babe, be born. Pope.

7. To issue or proceed, as from a parent or ancestor; to result, as
from a cause, motive, reason, or principle.
[They found] new hope to spring Out of despair, joy, but with fear
yet linked. Milton.

8. To grow; to prosper.
What makes all this, but Jupiter the king, At whose command we
perish, and we spring Dryden.
To spring at, to leap toward; to attempt to reach by a leap.
 -- To spring forth, to leap out; to rush out.
 -- To spring in, to rush in; to enter with a leap or in haste.
 -- To spring on or upon, to leap on; to rush on with haste or
violence; to assault.

SPRING
Spring, v. t.

1. To cause to spring up; to start or rouse, as game; to cause to
rise from the earth, or from a covert; as, to spring a pheasant.

2. To produce or disclose suddenly or unexpectedly.
She starts, and leaves her bed, amd springs a light. Dryden.
The friends to the cause sprang a new project. Swift.

3. To cause to explode; as, to spring a mine.

4. To crack or split; to bend or strain so as to weaken; as, to
spring a mast or a yard.

5. To cause to close suddenly, as the parts of a trap operated by a
spring; as, to spring a trap.

6. To bend by force, as something stiff or strong; to force or put by
bending, as a beam into its sockets, and allowing it to straighten
when in place; -- often with in, out, etc.; as, to spring in a slat
or a bar.

7. To pass over by leaping; as, to spring a fence. To spring a butt
(Naut.), to loosen the end of a plank in a ship's bottom.
 -- To spring a leak (Naut.), to begin to leak.
 -- To spring an arch (Arch.), to build an arch; -- a common term
among masons; as, to spring an arcg over a lintel.
 -- To spring a rattle, to cause a rattle to sound. See Watchman's
rattle, under Watchman.
 -- To spring the luff (Naut.), to ease the helm, and sail nearer to
the wind than before; -- said of a vessel. Mar. Dict.
 -- To spring a mast or spar (Naut.), to strain it so that it is
unserviceable.

SPRING
Spring, n. Etym: [AS. spring a fountain, a leap. See Spring, v. i.]

1. A leap; a bound; a jump.
The prisoner, with a spring, from prison broke. Dryden.

2. A flying back; the resilience of a body recovering its former
state by elasticity; as, the spring of a bow.

3. Elastic power or force.
Heavens! what a spring was in his arm! Dryden.

4. An elastic body of any kind, as steel, India rubber, tough wood,
or compressed air, used for various mechanical purposes, as receiving
and imparting power, diminishing concussion, regulating motion,
measuring weight or other force.

Note: The principal varieties of springs used in mechanisms are the
spiral spring (Fig. a), the coil spring (Fig. b), the elliptic spring
(Fig. c), the half-elliptic spring (Fig. d), the volute spring, the
India-rubber spring, the atmospheric spring, etc.

5. Any source of supply; especially, the source from which a stream
proceeds; as issue of water from the earth; a natural fountain. "All
my springs are in thee." Ps. lxxxvii. 7. "A secret spring of
spiritual joy." Bentley. "The sacred spring whence and honor
streams." red rose of the House of Lancaster. Sir J. Davies.

6. Any active power; that by which action, or motion, is produced or
propagated; cause; origin; motive.
Our author shuns by vulgar springs to move The hero's glory, or the
virgin's love. Pope.

7. That which springs, or is originated, from a source; as: (a) A
race; lineage. [Obs.] Chapman.
(b) A youth; a springal. [Obs.] Spenser.
(c) A shoot; a plant; a young tree; also, a grove of trees; woodland.
[Obs.] Spenser. Milton.

8. That which causes one to spring; specifically, a lively tune.
[Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

9. The season of the year when plants begin to vegetate and grow; the
vernal season, usually comprehending the months of March, April, and
May, in the middle latitudes north of the equator. "The green lap of
the new-come spring." Shak.

Note: Spring of the astronomical year begins with the vernal equinox,
about March 21st, and ends with the summer solstice, about June 21st.

10. The time of growth and progress; early portion; first stage. "The
spring of the day." 1 Sam. ix. 26.
O how this spring of love resembleth The uncertain glory of an April
day. Shak.

11. (Naut.)
(a) A crack or fissure in a mast or yard, running obliquely or
transversely.
(b) A line led from a vessel's quarter to her cable so that by
tightening or slacking it she can be made to lie in any desired
position; a line led diagonally from the bow or stern of a vessel to
some point upon the wharf to which she is moored. Air spring, Boiling
spring, etc. See under Air, Boiling, etc.
 -- Spring back (Bookbinding), a back with a curved piece of thin
sheet iron or of stiff pasteboard fastened to the inside, the effect
of which is to make the leaves of a book thus bound (as a ledger or
other account or blank book) spring up and lie flat.
 -- Spring balance, a contrivance for measuring weight or force by
the elasticity of a spiral spring of steel.
 -- Spring beam, a beam that supports the side of a paddle box. See
Paddle beam, under Paddle, n.
 -- Spring beauty. (a) (Bot.) Any plant of the genus Claytonia,
delicate herbs with somewhat fleshy leaves and pretty blossoms,
appearing in springtime. (b) (Zoöl.) A small, elegant American
butterfly (Erora læta) which appears in spring. The hind wings of the
male are brown, bordered with deep blue; those of the female are
mostly blue.
 -- Spring bed, a mattress, under bed, or bed bottom, in which
springs, as of metal, are employed to give the required elasticity.
 -- Spring beetle (Zoöl.), a snapping beetle; an elater.
 -- Spring box, the box or barrel in a watch, or other piece of
mechanism, in which the spring is contained.
 -- Spring fly (Zoöl.), a caddice fly; -- so called because it
appears in the spring.
 -- Spring grass (Bot.), a vernal grass. See under Vernal.
 -- Spring gun, a firearm disharged by a spring, when this is trodden
upon or is otherwise moved.
 -- Spring hook (Locomotive Engines), one of the hooks which fix the
driving-wheel spring to the frame.
 -- Spring latch, a latch that fastens with a spring.

-- Spring lock, a lock that fastens with a spring.
 -- Spring mattress, a spring bed.
 -- Spring of an arch (Arch.) See Springing line of an arch, under
Springing.
 -- Spring of pork, the lower part of a fore quarter, which is
divided from the neck, and has the leg and foot without the shoulder.
[Obs.] Nares.
Sir, pray hand the spring of pork to me. Gayton.
-- Spring pin (Locomotive Engines), an iron rod fitted between the
springs and the axle boxes, to sustain and regulate the pressure on
the axles.
 -- Spring rye, a kind of rye sown in the spring; -- in distinction
from winter rye, sown in autumn.
 -- Spring stay (Naut.), a preventer stay, to assist the regular one.
R. H. Dana, Jr.
 -- Spring tide, the tide which happens at, or soon after, the new
and the full moon, and which rises higher than common tides. See
Tide.
 -- Spring wagon, a wagon in which springs are interposed between the
body and the axles to form elastic supports.
 -- Spring wheat, any kind of wheat sown in the spring; -- in
distinction from winter wheat, which is sown in autumn.

SPRINGAL; SPRINGALD; SPRINGALL
Spring"al, Spring"ald, Spring"all, a. Etym: [Scot. springald,
springel, fr. Scot. & E. spring.]

Defn: An active, springly young man. [Obs.] "There came two springals
of full tender years." Spenser.
Joseph, when he was sold to Potiphar, that great man, was a fair
young springall. Latimer.

SPRINGAL
Spring"al, n. Etym: [OF. espringale; of Teutonic origin, akin to E.
spring.]

Defn: An ancient military engine for casting stones and arrows by
means of a spring.

SPRINGBOARD
Spring"board`, n.

Defn: An elastic board, secured at the ends, or at one end, often by
elastic supports, used in performing feats of agility or in
exercising.

SPRINGBOK; SPRINGBUCK
Spring"bok`, Spring"buck`, n. Etym: [D. springbok; springen to
spring, leap + bok a he-goat, buck.] (Zoöl.)

Defn: A South African gazelle (Gazella euchore) noted for its
graceful form and swiftness, and for its peculiar habit of springing
lighty and suddenly into the air. It has a white dorsal stripe,
expanding into a broad patch of white on the rump and tail. Called
also springer. [Written also springboc, and springbock.]

SPRINGE
Springe, n. Etym: [From Spring, v. i.: cf. G. sprenkel, Prov. E.
springle.]

Defn: A noose fastened to an elastic body, and drawn close with a
sudden spring, whereby it catches a bird or other animal; a gin; a
snare.
As a woodcock to mine own springe. Shak.

SPRINGE
Springe, v. t.

Defn: To catch in a springe; to insnare. [R.]

SPRINGE
Spring"e ( or ), v. t. Etym: [OE. sprengen. See Sprinkle.]

Defn: To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.]
He would sowen some difficulty, Or springen cockle in our cleane
corn. Chaucer.

SPRINGER
Spring"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, springs; specifically, one who rouses
game.

2. A young plant. [Obs.] Evelyn.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The impost, or point at which an arch rests upon its support, and
from which it seems to spring. Hence:
(b) The bottom stone of an arch, which lies on the impost. The skew
back is one form of springer.
(c) The rib of a groined vault, as being the solid abutment for each
section of vaulting.

4. (Zoöl.)

Defn: The grampus.

5. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A variety of the field spaniel. See Spaniel.

6. (Zoöl.)

Defn: A species of antelope; the sprinkbok.
