What about your qualities, your skills, and your temperament equip you to step into that role at a moment's notice?
Why do so many people distrust her?
Do they have a passion in their life that showed up before they were in public life?
KAINE: Do you know that we had 175,000 troops deployed in the battlefield in Iraq and Afghanistan?
And guess what?
Do you want a “you're hired” president in Hillary Clinton or do you want a “you're fired” president in Donald Trump?
And Donald Trump -- why would he do this?
KAINE: How do you know that?
KAINE: He stood on the stage last week and when Hillary said, you haven't been paying taxes, he said, “That makes me smart.” So it's smart not to pay for our military?
Do we ask too much of police officers in this country?
What would you tell the millions of undocumented immigrants who have not committed violent crimes?
Did you all just hear that?
KAINE: Did Donald Trump apologize for taking after somebody in a Twitter war and making fun of her weight?
QUIJANO: So, Governor, how would these millions of undocumented immigrants leave?
Do you think the world today is a safer or more dangerous place than it was eight years ago?
PENCE: Did you work on that one a long time?
Hillary and I want to do enforcement based on, are people dangerous?
QUIJANO: What exactly would an intelligence surge look like?
And, look, if you put aside -- push aside your alliances, who you're going to share intelligence with?
Where would you propose setting up a safe zone specifically?
PENCE: Donald Trump has paid all the taxes that he's -- do you not take deductions?
QUIJANO: And exactly how would those safe zones work?
What steps, if any, would your administration take to counter these actions?
KAINE: So how do deal with him?
QUIJANO: What specific steps would you take to prevent North Korea from developing a nuclear-armed missile capable of reaching the United States?
KAINE: A $20,000 portrait of Donald Trump?
Can you discuss in detail a time when you struggled to balance your personal faith and a public policy position?
KAINE: Governor, why don't you trust women to make this choice for themselves?
